# Getting Involved

Student Robotics is powered by volunteers. We have a variety of skills and
backgrounds, but share a passion for encouraging the teams through the medium of
robotics.

There are a lots of different ways you can get involved. Whether it's mentoring
a team through the competition year, helping run one of our events or developing
our hardware or software, this runbook is the place to look for guidance on how
we do things.

## What to expect

When you first start helping out, you'll have a chat with a volunteer
co-ordinator who will be able to tell you a bit more about how we're organised
and work with you to find things you'd like to help with. They'll also ask you
for contact details and for you to read the [Code of Conduct][code-of-conduct].

They'll also be able to answer any questions you have about the organisation and
get you set up with accounts on our [collaboration platforms][comms-platforms]
(we primarily use [Slack][sr-slack] and [GitHub][sr-github]).

## Responsibilities

Everyone will contribute in different ways and has a range of different
experiences.
It's up to each of us to create the community we want to be a part of.

### Reliability, communication and taking ownership

Our time as volunteers is precious, so its important that we spend it on making
things happen or enabling those who are doing that.

Please be clear with about what you're working on and how it's going. This helps
others know where they can help and creates a reference for the future.

It's completely fine to say no to things or to explicitly drop them if you don't
have the capacity. We trust you to balance your contributions to SR with the
rest of your life.

It's better to say no to something than say yes and not do it.

### Being empathetic and creating a safe environment

We should be thinking about others whenever we do something, acknowledging the
effort they may have put in before criticising.

For example: if you're reviewing something a colleague has been working hard on,
and all you do is say "Approved, but needs a couple of changes" then you haven't
thought about the effect that has on the person, nor have you considered the
power of saying something more congratulatory and celebratory.

We aim to be compassionate and care about other volunteers. Everybody should
want to create and enjoy a safe, fun place to contribute, where people can take
risks without fear of ridicule or retribution, where all questions are answered
in a friendly and empathetic manner, where people consider the position of
others before responding, and where everybody's default position isn't to prove
something about themselves, but to help their colleagues to grow and improve.

## Tasks

_**Main article**_: [Tasks](./tasks.md)

Our main list of tasks is at https://github.com/srobo/tasks/issues. If there's
something you'd like to get involved with doing, discussing on the task there
(and possibly creating one if needed) is the way to go.

[code-of-conduct]: https://srobo.gitbook.io/ops-manual/about-the-charity/code-of-conduct
[comms-platforms]: ./communication-platforms.md
[sr-slack]: https://studentrobotics.slack.com/
[sr-github]: https://github.com/srobo
